{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13340\viewh13480\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 17 Dec. 2018\
\
Dear Ryan,\
\
Your Christmas present this year is kind of an experiment. \
\
Denise and I were talking about you, and she suggested I get you an Arduino starter kit. Nice idea, I thought, but there\'92s not many sound or music projects in it, and I wanted to get you something in that area, because I really admire your talent. \
\
There\'92s not an official Arduino sound or music kit. So I began making one. What you have is my first attempt at it. I hope you\'92ll be able to make some sense of it, and even more, I hope you\'92ll be able to make some music with it. \
\
This kit includes two of the newest Arduino computers, the MKR Zero and the MKR1010. They can do things that the older Arduino models can\'92t, like play WAV files. They can also be programmed to appear to your computer as MIDI controllers, so you can connect them to digital audio software like ProTools or Logic or GarageBand or Ableton Live, or others. Trouble is, there are no starter kits for the MKR series boards, so this is a prototype for that too. Keep in touch with me via email as you go and we\'92ll get through it it together.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 I\'92ve been writing examples and instructions for this kit online at https://github.com/tigoe/SoundExamples, and I will continue to write more. I\'92ll include a lot of reference links there, including where you can download the Arduino software you need.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Since there is no existing kit, and no existing reference material, I\'92ve included two books, one by my business partner Massimo Banzi, which is probably the best getting started guide to the Arduino. Even though it\'92s written for the original Arduino Uno, all the examples in it should work on the MKR Zero and MKR 1010 as well. \
\
The other is my own book. It\'92s not about sound or music, but it is about networking, and one of the Arduino computers that you\'92ve got in this kit, the MKR1010, has WiFi and can connect to a network. All the things I wrote about the MKR1000 in my book apply also to the MKR1010. I hope these two books will give you some background material, if nothing else. \
\
I hope you enjoy the experiment! I look forward to hearing what you make with it, and I\'92m sure we\'92ll be in touch via email at least as you go. My email\'92s tom.igoe@gmail.com, so mail me when you have questions. Or call me!}